The President:
Over the past few weeks, as
we've debated reforms to hold
Wall Street accountable and
protect consumers and small
businesses in our
financial system,
we've come face-to-face with the
great power of special interests
in the workings
of our democracy.
Of course, this
isn't a surprise.
Every time a major issue arises,
we've come to expect that an
army of lobbyists will descend
on Capitol Hill in the hopes of
tilting the laws in their favor.
That's one of the reasons I
ran for President: because I
believed so strongly that the
voices of ordinary Americans
were being drowned out by the
clamor of a privileged few in Washington.
And that's why, since
the day I took office,
my administration has been
taking steps to reform the system.
Recently, however, the Supreme
Court issued a decision that
overturned decades of
law and precedent --
dealing a huge blow to our
efforts to rein in this undue influence.
In short, this decision gives
corporations and other special
interests the power to spend
unlimited amounts of money --
literally millions of dollars -- to affect elections throughout
our country.
This, in turn, will multiply
their influence over
decision-making
in our government.
In the starkest terms,
members will know --
when pressured by lobbyists -- that if they dare to oppose that
lobbyist's client, they could face an onslaught of negative
advertisement in the run
up to their next election.
And corporations will be allowed
to run these ads without ever
having to tell voters exactly
who is paying for them.
At a time when the American
people are already being
overpowered in Washington
by these forces,
this will be a new and even more
powerful weapon that the special
interests will wield.
In fact, it's exactly this kind
of vast power that led a great
Republican President
-- Teddy Roosevelt --
to tackle this
issue a century ago.
He warned of the dangers of
limitless corporate spending in
our political system.
He actually called it "one
of the principal sources of
corruption in our
political affairs."
And he proposed strict limits
on corporate influence in elections.
"[E]very special interest is
entitled to justice," he said.
"[B]ut not one is entitled
to a vote in Congress,
to a voice on the bench, or to
representation in any public office."
In the wake of the recent
Supreme Court ruling,
we face a similar challenge.
That's why it's so important
that Congress consider new
reforms to prevent corporations
and other special interests from
gaining even more
clout in Washington.
And almost all of these reforms
are designed to bring new
transparency to
campaign spending.
They're based on the principle
espoused by former Supreme Court
Justice Louis Brandeis --
that sunlight is the best disinfectant.
Shadowy campaign committees
would have to reveal who's
funding their activities
to the American people.
And when corporations and other
special interests take to the
airwaves, whoever is running and
funding the ad would have to
appear in the advertisement and
claim responsibility for it --
like a company's CEO or
an organization's biggest contributor.
This will mean citizens can
evaluate the claims in these ads
with information about an
organization's real motives.
We know how important this is.
We've all seen groups with
benign-seeming names sponsoring
television commercials that
make accusations and assertions
designed to influence the public
debate and sway voters' minds.
Now, of course every organization has every right in
this country to make
their voices heard.
But the American people also
have the right to know when some
group like "Citizens for a
Better Future" is actually
funded entirely by "Corporations
for Weaker Oversight."
In addition, these reforms would
address another troubling aspect
of the Supreme Court's ruling.
Under the bill
Congress will consider,
we'll make sure that foreign
corporations and foreign
nationals are restricted from
spending money to influence
American elections, just
as they were in the past --
even through U.S. subsidiaries.
And we'll keep large contractors
that receive taxpayer funds from
interfering in our
elections as well,
to avoid the appearance of
corruption and the possible
misuse of tax dollars.
Now, we can expect that these
proposed changes will be met
with heavy resistance from the
special interests and their
supporters in Congress.
But I'm calling on leaders in
both parties to resist these pressures.
For what we are facing is no
less than a potential corporate
takeover of our elections.
And what is at stake is no
less than the integrity of our democracy.
This shouldn't be a Democratic
issue or a Republican issue.
This is an issue that goes to
whether or not we will have a
government that works for
ordinary Americans --
a government of, by,
and for the people.
That's why these reforms
are so important.
And that's why I'm going to
fight to see them passed into law.
Thanks so much.